well howdy there internet people let's
bow again so tonight we're going to
delve into a hotly debated topic because
it's debated for some reason I'm not
really sure why it's a question that
pops up a lot and when people try to
answer it and I think this is the reason
it ends up getting debated they try to
answer it by talking about campaign
strategies and abstract things like that
however it's a historical thing so
rather than do it that way let's just
use a time line then we can see whether
or not it happened and why it happened
and then we can talk about some of the
other stuff the question is how did the
party of Lincoln become the party of
Trump did the Republican Party in the
Democratic Party switch places
at least on some issues so rather than
talking about the abstract let's do a
timeline did it happen look at the
electoral votes for 1964 the
presidential election in 1960 look at
all those blue states in the south crazy
that's something you wouldn't expect to
see all right and you can go back a few
elections and see that that trend holds
all right now look at 1964 they're red
so yes it happened how and why what was
going on in those states between 60 and
64 the civil rights movement okay
fair enough that's correlation though
and one of the things we talked about on
this channel a lot is that correlation
does not equal causation so we need to
go a little bit further who were the
Democratic candidates for the primary
for president in 64 two main ones
Johnson and Wallace yeah that Wallace
ardent segregationist and he lost he
lost he lost to the guy who signed the
Civil Rights Act of 1964
okay so that shows that the Democratic
Party rejected at least that form of
racism segregation is bad all right what
about the Republicans who'd they run
Goldwater who voted against the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 and campaigned on
states rights it shows where the switch
occurred and why and that's good it's
pretty clear there but we need to be
ironclad on this right I mean this is
pretty heavy accusation saying that the
Republican Party intentionally altered
their platform to go after the races to
vote we need to show that that's really
kind of the only reason that the south
would stop voting democrat how are we
going to show that pull up the electoral
college the votes for in nineteen forty
eight weird the south didn't vote blue
didn't vote red either who to vote for
Strom Thurmond a segregationist under
third party the Dixiecrats
yeah that's why it happened that's how
it happened it's real clear its history
it's not something you can really debate
that's how the party of Lincoln turned
into the party of Trump that's why the
Republican Party gets seen as the party
of racists they altered their campaign
strategy and platform to help them when
you go out of your way to include them
that's how you get that reputation sorry
I would suggest that maybe it's time for
people to stop worrying about their
party and start worrying more about
being a good person a lot of Republicans
that I know they make excuses for their
party's platform when it comes to the
tangible to the real to the things they
see themselves a good
Apple is welfare food stamps stuff like
that all right you talk to a Republican
in abstract terms and you hear stuff
like welfare queen and stuff like that
you talk to them about somebody that
they know well that person needs help
because contrary to a lot of imagery
Republicans the average Republican voter
isn't evil
they understand that sometimes people
need help but they have that image from
that platform when you talk to him about
individuals and you talk to them about
people rather than groups a lot of the
things the Republican Party opposes
they're actually four and then you
conduct this little experiment the
people that they think are okay and just
need a little help they're struggling
do they always look like them a lot of
times it's true and the image they have
of the welfare queen well they don't
look like them and then you go back to
how it originated what this topic is
really about why is the Republicans
party seen as the party of racists
because a lot of times their rhetoric
their policies and the way they try to
move those policies forward is racist
there's no big mystery here
the average Republican may not be racist
but they kind of decided it wasn't a
deal breaker for them
anyway it's just a thought you know have
a good night